#summary A quick guide to getting started with itSimple project.
#sidebar TableContents

*itSIMPLE 4.0* is a java-based software and run on _Windows_, _Linux_ and _Mac_.

=Installing *itSIMPLE*=

== Linux ==
 * Check if you have the lastest version of _Java Runtime installed_ (e.g., *JRE 6*, http://java.sun.com). You can check your version by typing _"java -version" in a terminal_;
 * Download itSIMPLE http://code.google.com/p/itsimple/downloads/list;
 * Unzip the file;
 * Change permission (typing in command line: _chmod +x itSIMPLE_v.jar_);
 * Run the software: Typing in command line: _java -jar itSIMPLE_v.jar_;

== Windows (XP/Vista/7.0)==
 * Check if you have the lastest version of _Java Runtime installed_ (e.g., *JRE 6*, http://java.sun.com). You can check your version by typing _"java -version" in a terminal_;
 * Download itSIMPLE http://code.google.com/p/itsimple/downloads/list;
 * Unzip the file;
 * Run the software: Typing in command line: _java -jar itSIMPLE_v.jar_ or double-clicking on _itSIMPLE_v.jar_ file.

=Set up  itSIMPLE in Eclipse or Netbeans for development=

== Eclipse ==
 * Check out *itSIMPLE* project (Repository folder: https://itsimple.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/) to a local folder in your computer, e.g. recomended a folder called _‘itSIMPLEsrc’_ (not in the workspace folder of Eclipse). Wait for checkout completion.
 * Create a new project (_New-> Java Project_ choice). Name the project _'itSIMPLE'_. Press _Next_ and on the _Source_ tab press _"Link Additional source to the project"_. Chose the _'itSIMPLEsrc'_ folder were the checkout was done.
 * Add the *JAR/ZIP libraries* to the project (right click over the _project -> Properties -> Java Build Path_ and on the tab press _Add external Jars_). Selected all .jar libraries. They will be in the folder *.../itSIMPLEsrc/lib*.
 * Copy and paste the following folders _‘resource’_, _‘myPlanners_, _‘myIcons’_, _‘myValidators’_, and _‘myAnalyzers’_ from the *itSIMPLEsrc folder* into the project folder created by *Eclipse* (e.g., _workspace/itSIMPLE_). This is necessary for running *itSIMPLE_v* inside the *Eclipse* environment.
 * Run the class *ItSIMPLE_v.java*.

== Netbeans ==
 * Check out *itSIMPLE* project (_team->checkout_ choice; _Repository folder_: https://itsimple.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/) to a local folder in your computer, e.g. in a folder called _‘itSIMPLEsrc’_ (not in the *NetBeans Projects* folder). Uncheck _“Scan for !Netbeans project after"_. Wait for checkout completion.
 * Create a project with existing source (_New project-> Java -> Java Project with Existing Sources_). Name the project _'itSIMPLE'_. The project folder can be created in the *Netbeans Projects* folder. As for the source, point to the folder that where you checked out the code (the _‘itSIMPLEsrc’_).
 * Add the *JAR/ZIP libraries8 to the project (right click over _Libraries -> Add Jar/Folder_). Selected all .jar libraries). They will be in the folder *.../itSIMPLEsrc/lib*.
 * Copy and paste the following folders _‘resource’_, _‘myPlanners’_, _‘myIcons’_, _‘myValidators’_, and _‘myAnalyzers’_ from the *itSIMPLEsrc8 folder into the project folder created by *Netbeans* (e.g., _NetBeans Projects/itSIMPLE_). This is necessary for running itSIMPLE inside the Netbeans environment.
 * Run the class ItSIMPLE_v.java.